- [Frank] As a microservices architecture grows,
so does the complexity of finding the appropriate service
that provides the models and behavior you need.
Enter into the picture service discovery.
Service discovery can save you a lot of time,
especially in a dynamic runtime where service locations
can vary by scaling events and geographic location.
The problem we are trying to solve here is very simple,
what service do I need to call
to perform some body of work?
While when you only have a small set of microservices,
that may seem very maintainable within your configuration,
once you go to hundreds or even thousands
within a single deployment, it's not so manageable.
The concept is actually quite simple as well.
A central location exists that allows
for discovery of services.
As a new service comes online,
it advertises itself and what models or processes
it exposes to the rest of the system.
It does this by introspection of its URI,
essentially saying at location foo,
you can find services for bar.
A service can then query the central location
to find out which services exist within the system
that expose the needed behavior.
Once it's found, a URI to that service
is returned from the central location
and it's all based on the afore mentioned advertisement.
The service has then been discovered
and the client call can call the URI
from discovery instead of configuration.
This model becomes much more extensible than simple config.
Building a discovery system in clients, however,
is beyond the scope of this course.
But I will say, off the shelf components in libraries exist.
Use them if possible.
Netflix, for instance, has done a great job
of open sourcing many of their components
around service discovery and they're an example of a company
running thousands and thousands of microservices,
all based on service discovery.